---
title: RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats
slug: Web/API/RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats
page-type: web-api-interface
browser-compat: api.RTCStatsReport.type_remote-outbound-rtp
---

{{APIRef("WebRTC")}}

The **`RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats`** dictionary of the [WebRTC API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API) is used to report statistics from remote endpoint of its outbound RTP stream, which corresponds to an inbound stream that is currently received by an {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection")}} object.

The statistics can be obtained by iterating the {{domxref("RTCStatsReport")}} returned by {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection.getStats()")}} until you find a report with the [`type`](#type) of `remote-outbound-rtp`.

## Instance properties

### Remote outbound specific properties

- {{domxref("RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats.localId", "localId")}} {{optional_inline}}

  - : A string which is used to find the local {{domxref("RTCInboundRtpStreamStats")}} object which shares the same Synchronization Source (SSRC).

- {{domxref("RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats.remoteTimestamp", "remoteTimestamp")}} {{optional_inline}}

  - : A {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} specifying the timestamp (on the remote device) at which the statistics in the `RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats` object were sent by the remote endpoint. This is different from the {{domxref("RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats.timestamp", "timestamp")}}; it represents the time at which the object's statistics were received or generated by the local endpoint.

- `reportsSent` {{optional_inline}} {{experimental_inline}}

  - : A positive integer indicating the total number of {{glossary("RTCP")}} Sender Report (SR) blocks sent for this synchronization source (SSRC).

- `roundTripTimeMeasurements` {{optional_inline}} {{experimental_inline}}

  - : A positive integer indicating the total number of {{glossary("RTCP")}} Sender Report (SR) blocks received for this synchronization source (SSRC) that contain a DLRR (Delay Since last Receiver Report) block that can be used to derive a valid round trip time. <!-- see https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3611#section-4.5 -->
    This counter will not increment if the round trip time cannot be calculated.

- `totalRoundTripTime` {{optional_inline}} {{experimental_inline}}
  - : A real number indicating the cumulative sum of all round trip time measurements since the beginning of the session, in seconds.
    The average round trip time can be computed by dividing `totalRoundTripTime` by `roundTripTimeMeasurements`.

### RTP sent-stream stat properties

<!-- RTCSentRtpStreamStats -->

- `bytesSent` {{optional_inline}}

  - : A positive integer indicating the total number of bytes sent for this SSRC, including retransmissions. <!-- [RFC3550] section 6.4.1 -->

- `packetsSent` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A positive integer indicating the total number of RTP packets sent for this SSRC, including retransmissions. <!-- [RFC3550] section 6.4.1 -->

### RTP stream-stat properties

<!-- RTCRtpStreamStats -->

- {{domxref("RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats.codecId", "codecId")}} {{optional_inline}}

  - : A string that uniquely identifies the object that was inspected to produce the {{domxref("RTCCodecStats")}} report associated with this {{Glossary("RTP")}} stream.

- {{domxref("RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats.kind", "kind")}}

  - : A string whose value is `"audio"` if the associated {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack")}} is audio-only or `"video"` if the track contains video.
    This value will match that of the media type indicated by {{domxref("RTCCodecStats.codec")}}, as well as the track's {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.kind", "kind")}} property. Previously called `mediaType`.

- {{domxref("RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats.ssrc", "ssrc")}}

  - : A positive integer that identifies the synchronization source (SSRC) of the RTP stream that is being sent to the remote endpoint.
    This value is generated per the {{RFC(3550)}} specification.

- {{domxref("RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats.transportId", "transportId")}} {{optional_inline}}
  - : A string that uniquely identifies the object that was inspected to produce the {{domxref("RTCTransportStats")}} report associated with this RTP stream.

### Common instance properties

The following properties are common to all WebRTC statistics objects.

<!-- RTCStats -->

- {{domxref("RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats.id", "id")}}
  - : A string that uniquely identifies the object that is being monitored to produce this set of statistics.
- {{domxref("RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats.timestamp", "timestamp")}}
  - : A {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} object indicating the time at which the sample was taken for this statistics object.
- {{domxref("RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats.type", "type")}}
  - : A string with the value `"remote-outbound-rtp"`, indicating the type of statistics that the object contains.

## Usage notes

The `RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats` object's {{domxref("RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats.remoteTimestamp", "remoteTimestamp")}} property provides statistics based on the received data's NTP timestamp taken from an {{Glossary("RTCP")}} Sender Report (SR) block.
Be aware that the remote clock may not be synchronized with the local clock (either in current time or speed at which time elapses).

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}
