---
title: MediaTrackConstraints.latency
slug: Web/API/MediaTrackConstraints/latency
page-type: web-api-instance-property
tags:
  - API
  - Audio
  - Media
  - Media Capture and Streams API
  - Media Streams API
  - MediaTrackConstraints
  - Property
  - Reference
  - WebRTC
  - getusermedia
  - latency
browser-compat: api.MediaTrackConstraints.latency
---
{{APIRef("Media Capture and Streams")}}

The {{domxref("MediaTrackConstraints")}} dictionary's
**`latency`** property is a [`ConstrainDouble`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaTrackConstraints#constraindouble)
describing the requested or mandatory constraints placed upon the value of the
{{domxref("MediaTrackSettings.latency", "latency")}} constrainable property.

If needed, you can determine whether or not this constraint is supported by checking
the value of {{domxref("MediaTrackSupportedConstraints.latency")}} as returned by a call
to {{domxref("MediaDevices.getSupportedConstraints()")}}. However, typically this is
unnecessary since browsers will ignore any constraints they're unfamiliar with.

Because {{Glossary("RTP")}} doesn't include this information, tracks associated with a
[WebRTC](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API) {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection")}}
will never include this property.

## Value

A [`ConstrainDouble`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaTrackConstraints#constraindouble) describing the acceptable or required value(s) for an
audio track's latency, with values specified in seconds. In audio processing, latency is
the time between the start of processing (when sound occurs in the real world, or is
generated by a hardware device) and the data being made available to the next step in
the audio input or output process. In most cases, low latency is desirable for
performance and user experience purposes, but when power consumption is a concern, or
delays are otherwise acceptable, higher latency might be acceptable.

If this property's value is a number, the user agent will attempt to obtain media whose
latency tends to be as close as possible to this number given the capabilities of the
hardware and the other constraints specified. Otherwise, the value of this
[`ConstrainDouble`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaTrackConstraints#constraindouble) will guide the user agent in its efforts to provide an
exact match to the required latency (if `exact` is specified or both
`min` and `max` are provided and have the same value) or to a
best-possible value.

> **Note:** Latency is always prone to some variation due to hardware usage demands, network
> constraints, and so forth, so even in an "exact" match, some variation should be
> expected.

## Examples

See {{SectionOnPage("/en-US/docs/Web/API/Media_Streams_API/Constraints", "Example:
  Constraint exerciser")}} for an example.

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Media Capture and Streams API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Media_Streams_API)
- [Capabilities, constraints, and settings](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Media_Streams_API/Constraints)
- {{domxref("MediaTrackConstraints")}}
- {{domxref("MediaDevices.getSupportedConstraints()")}}
- {{domxref("MediaTrackSupportedConstraints")}}
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack")}}
