---
title: Reporting-Endpoints header
short-title: Reporting-Endpoints
slug: Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers/Reporting-Endpoints
page-type: http-header
browser-compat: http.headers.Reporting-Endpoints
sidebar: http
---

The HTTP **`Reporting-Endpoints`** {{Glossary("response header")}} allows website administrators to specify one or more endpoints that can be sent reports generated by the [Reporting API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Reporting_API).

The endpoints can be used, for example, as targets for sending crash reports, deprecation reports, [Content Security Policy (CSP)](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/CSP#violation_reporting) violation reports, {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy")}} reports, and so on.

> [!NOTE]
> This header replaces {{HTTPHeader("Report-To")}} {{deprecated_inline}} for declaring endpoints, and should be used in preference.

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Header type</th>
      <td>{{Glossary("Response header")}}</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">
        {{Glossary("CORS-safelisted response header")}}
      </th>
      <td>No</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Syntax

```http
Reporting-Endpoints: <endpoint>
Reporting-Endpoints: <endpoint>, …, <endpointN>
```

- `<endpoint>`
  - : A reporting endpoint in the format `<endpoint-name>="<URL>"`.
    The endpoints must have valid URIs in quoted strings (e.g., `my-endpoint="https://example.com/reports"`) and non-secure endpoints are ignored.
    A comma-separated list of endpoints may be provided.

## Description

The **`Reporting-Endpoints`** header defines the mapping between an endpoint name and a URL.

This name can be used to identify the reporting endpoint for policy violations in some HTTP headers.
For example, the {{HTTPHeader("Content-Security-Policy")}} allows you to specify the reporting endpoint name in its {{CSP("report-to")}} directive, while the [`endpoints` key](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers/Integrity-Policy#endpoints) serves the same purpose for {{HTTPHeader("Integrity-Policy")}} violations.

### Default reporting endpoint

The default reporting endpoint is just a report with the name "default", as shown:

```http
Reporting-Endpoints: default="https://example.com/reports"
```

This _may_ be used as the reporting endpoint for cases where the HTTP header that triggers a report does not have mechanism for reporting the endpoint, such as the {{httpheader("Permissions-Policy")}} header.
It may also be used as the endpoint for reports where there is no associated HTTP header at all, such as for [deprecation reports](/en-US/docs/Web/API/DeprecationReport).

## Examples

### Setting a CSP violation report endpoint

The following example shows how the `Reporting-Endpoints` response header is used in conjunction with the {{HTTPHeader("Content-Security-Policy")}} header to indicate where CSP violation reports are sent:

```http
Reporting-Endpoints: csp-endpoint="https://example.com/csp-reports"
Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'self'; report-to csp-endpoint
```

### Specifying multiple reporting endpoints

It's possible to specify multiple endpoints that can be used for different types of violation reports.

```http
Reporting-Endpoints: csp-endpoint="https://example.com/csp-reports",
                     permissions-endpoint="https://example.com/permissions-policy-reports"
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Reporting API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Reporting_API)
- [Content Security Policy (CSP)](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/CSP#violation_reporting) guide
- {{HTTPHeader("Content-Security-Policy")}} header
- {{CSP("report-to")}} directive
