---
title: HmacImportParams
slug: Web/API/HmacImportParams
page-type: web-api-interface
spec-urls: https://w3c.github.io/webcrypto/#dfn-HmacImportParams
---

{{ APIRef("Web Crypto API") }}

The **`HmacImportParams`** dictionary of the [Web Crypto API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) represents the object that should be passed as the `algorithm` parameter into {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.importKey()")}} or {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.unwrapKey()")}}, when generating a key for the [HMAC](/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto/sign#hmac) algorithm.

## Instance properties

- `name`
  - : A string. This should be set to `HMAC`.
- `hash`

  - : A string or an object containing a single property called `name` with a string value. It is an identifier for the [digest algorithm](/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto/digest) to use. This should be one of the following:

    - `SHA-256`: selects the [SHA-256](/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto/digest#supported_algorithms) algorithm.
    - `SHA-384`: selects the [SHA-384](/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto/digest#supported_algorithms) algorithm.
    - `SHA-512`: selects the [SHA-512](/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto/digest#supported_algorithms) algorithm.

    > **Warning:** `SHA-1` is also supported here but the [SHA-1](/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto/digest#supported_algorithms) algorithm is considered vulnerable and should no longer be used.

- `length` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A `Number` representing the length in bits of the key. If this is omitted the length of the key is equal to the length of the digest generated by the digest function you have chosen. Unless you have a good reason to use a different length, omit this property and use the default.

## Examples

See the examples for {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.importKey()")}}.

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

Browsers that support the "HMAC" algorithm for the {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.importKey()")}}, {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.unwrapKey()")}} methods will support this type.

## See also

- {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.importKey()")}}.
- {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.unwrapKey()")}}.
