---
title: "Summarizer: availability() static method"
short-title: availability()
slug: Web/API/Summarizer/availability_static
page-type: web-api-static-method
browser-compat: api.Summarizer.availability_static
---

{{APIRef("Summarizer API")}}{{securecontext_header}}

The **`availability()`** static method of the {{domxref("Summarizer")}} interface returns an enumerated value that indicates whether the browser AI model supports (or will support) a given `Summarizer` configuration.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
Summarizer.availability()
Summarizer.availability(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options` {{optional_inline}}

  - : An options object specifying a possible configuration for a `Summarizer`. Possible values include:

    - `expectedInputLanguages`
      - : An array of strings equal to [BCP 47 language tags](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IETF_language_tag#List_of_common_primary_language_subtags) (as specified in [RFC 5646](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5646)) specifying the expected languages of the input text. Defaults to an array containing a single value representing the browser's primary language.
    - `expectedContextLanguages`
      - : An array of strings equal to BCP 47 language tags specifying the expected languages of any provided context strings (either the [`sharedContext`](#sharedContext) passed to the `Summarizer`, or a `context` specified during a {{domxref("Summarizer.summarize", "summarize()")}} or {{domxref("Summarizer.summarizeStreaming", "summarizeStreaming()")}} call). Defaults to an array containing a single value representing the browser's primary language.
    - `format`
      - : An enumerated value specifying the text {{domxref("Summarizer.format", "format")}} you want summaries returned in. defaults to `markdown`.
    - `length`
      - : An enumerated value specifying the relative {{domxref("Summarizer.length", "length")}} for the generated summaries. defaults to `short`.
    - `outputLanguage`
      - : A string equal to a BCP 47 language tag specifying the expected language of summaries generated by the `Summarizer`. Defaults to a string representing the browser's primary language.
    - `type`
      - : An enumerated value specifying the {{domxref("Summarizer.type", "type")}} of summary you want this `Summarizer` to generate. defaults to `key-points`.

EDITORIAL: I don't actually know what the language-related properties default to, or how the browser determines whether a language value is valid for particular browser or not. Needs to be researched.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that fulfills with an enumerated value indicating whether support is available (or will be available) for a given `Summarizer` configuration, or `null` if support could not be determined.

Possible values include:

- `available`
  - : The browser supports the given configuration.
- `downloadable`
  - : The browser does not support the given configuration, but it could do if an updated language model were downloaded.
- `downloading`
  - : The browser does not support the given configuration, but it will do when a currently-downloading language model update finishes.
- `unavailable`
  - : The browser does not support the given configuration.

EDITORIAL: I am guessing at how language model updates are identified and downloaded. Is this something that is done programmatically, or does the app need to instruct the user to do so? I'm assuming how this is handled will be implementation-dependant, but we ought to given an example of how Chrome does it. I probably need to give some more details on "best fit" languages, as per the example mentioned in the spec. More research needed.

### Exceptions

- `NotAllowedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if usage of the Summarizer API is blocked by a {{httpheader('Permissions-Policy/summarizer','summarizer')}} {{httpheader("Permissions-Policy")}}.
- `NotSupportedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if the provided `context` is not in language the `Summarizer` supports.
- `UnknownError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if the `measureInputUsage()` call failed for any other reason, or a reason the user agent did not wish to disclose.

## Examples

### Basic `availability()` usage

```js
const availability = await Summarizer.availability({
  type: "tl;dr",
  length: "short",
  format: "markdown",
  expectedInputLanguages: ["en-US"],
  outputLanguage: "en-US",
});
```

### Detecting language support

```js
async function langSupport(lang) {
  const availability = await Summarizer.availability({
    expectedInputLanguages: [lang],
  });
  return availability;
}

langSupport("en-US");
langSupport("fr");
langSupport("zh-CN");
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Using the Summarizer API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Summarizer_API/Using)
- [Web AI demos](https://chrome.dev/web-ai-demos/) on chrome.dev.
