---
title: 'Element: click event'
slug: Web/API/Element/click_event
page-type: web-api-event
tags:
  - API
  - DOM
  - Element
  - Event
  - Interface
  - MouseEvent
  - NeedsBrowserCompatibility
  - NeedsMobileBrowserCompatibility
  - Reference
  - UI
  - click
  - mouse
browser-compat: api.Element.click_event
---
{{APIRef}}

An element receives a **`click`** event when a pointing device button (such as a mouse's primary mouse button) is both pressed and released while the pointer is located inside the element.

If the button is pressed on one element and the pointer is moved outside the element before the button is released, the event is fired on the most specific ancestor element that contained both elements.

`click` fires after both the {{domxref("Element/mousedown_event", "mousedown")}} and {{domxref("Element/mouseup_event", "mouseup")}} events have fired, in that order.

## Syntax

Use the event name in methods like {{domxref("EventTarget.addEventListener", "addEventListener()")}}, or set an event handler property.

```js
addEventListener('click', (event) => {});

onclick = (event) => { };
```

## Event type

A {{domxref("MouseEvent")}}. Inherits from {{domxref("Event")}}.

{{InheritanceDiagram("MouseEvent")}}

## Event properties

_This interface also inherits properties of its parents, {{domxref("UIEvent")}} and {{domxref("Event")}}._

- {{domxref("MouseEvent.altKey")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>alt</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.button")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The button number that was pressed (if applicable) when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.buttons")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The buttons being pressed (if any) when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer in local (DOM content) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer in local (DOM content) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.ctrlKey")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>control</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.layerX")}} {{Non-standard_inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns the horizontal coordinate of the event relative to the current layer.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.layerY")}} {{Non-standard_inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns the vertical coordinate of the event relative to the current layer.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.metaKey")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>meta</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.movementX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the last {{domxref("Element/mousemove_event", "mousemove")}} event.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.movementY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the last {{domxref("Element/mousemove_event", "mousemove")}} event.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.offsetX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the padding edge of the target node.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.offsetY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the padding edge of the target node.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.pageX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the whole document.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.pageY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the whole document.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.relatedTarget")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The secondary target for the event, if there is one.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.screenX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer in global (screen) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.screenY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer in global (screen) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.shiftKey")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>shift</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.mozPressure")}} {{non-standard_inline()}} {{deprecated_inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The amount of pressure applied to a touch or tablet device when generating the event; this value ranges between `0.0` (minimum pressure) and `1.0` (maximum pressure).
    Instead of using this deprecated (and non-standard) property, you should use {{domxref("PointerEvent")}} and look at its {{domxref("PointerEvent.pressure", "pressure")}} property.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.mozInputSource")}} {{non-standard_inline()}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The type of device that generated the event (one of the `MOZ_SOURCE_*` constants).
    This lets you, for example, determine whether a mouse event was generated by an actual mouse or by a touch event (which might affect the degree of accuracy with which you interpret the coordinates associated with the event).
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.webkitForce")}} {{non-standard_inline()}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The amount of pressure applied when clicking
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.x")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Alias for {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientX")}}.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.y")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Alias for {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientY")}}

## Usage notes

The {{domxref("MouseEvent")}} object passed into the event handler for `click` has its {{domxref("UIEvent/detail", "detail")}} property set to the number of times the {{domxref("Event.target", "target")}} was clicked. In other words, `detail` will be 2 for a double-click, 3 for triple-click, and so forth. This counter resets after a short interval without any clicks occurring; the specifics of how long that interval is may vary from browser to browser and across platforms. The interval is also likely to be affected by user preferences; for example, accessibility options may extend this interval to make it easier to perform multiple clicks with adaptive interfaces.

### Internet Explorer

Internet Explorer 8 & 9 suffer from a bug where elements with a computed {{cssxref("background-color")}} of [`transparent`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#transparent_keyword) that are overlaid on top of other element(s) won't receive `click` events. Any `click` events will be fired at the underlying element(s) instead. See [this live example](https://jsfiddle.net/YUKma/show/) for a demonstration.

Known workarounds for this bug:

- For IE9 only:

  - Set {{cssxref("background-color")}}`: rgba(0,0,0,0)`
  - Set {{cssxref("opacity")}}`: 0` and an explicit {{cssxref("background-color")}} other than [`transparent`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#transparent_keyword)

- For IE8 and IE9: Set `filter: alpha(opacity=0);` and an explicit {{cssxref("background-color")}} other than [`transparent`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#transparent_keyword)

### Safari Mobile

Safari Mobile 7.0+ (and likely earlier versions too) [suffers from a bug](https://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=153887) where `click` events aren't fired on elements that aren't typically interactive (e.g. {{HTMLElement("div")}}) and which also don't have event listeners directly attached to the elements themselves (i.e. [event delegation](https://davidwalsh.name/event-delegate) is being used). See [this live example](https://jsfiddle.net/cvrhulu/k9t0sdnf/show/) for a demonstration. See also [Safari's docs on making elements clickable](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/AppleApplications/Reference/SafariWebContent/HandlingEvents/HandlingEvents.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40006511-SW6) and the [definition of "clickable element"](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/AppleApplications/Reference/SafariWebContent/HandlingEvents/HandlingEvents.html#/apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40006511-SW7).

Known workarounds for this bug:

- Set {{cssxref("cursor")}}`: pointer;` on the element or any of its ancestors.
- Add a dummy `onclick="void(0)"` attribute to the element or any of its ancestors up to but not including {{HTMLElement("body")}}.
- Use a typically interactive element (e.g., {{HTMLElement("a")}}) instead of one that isn't typically interactive (e.g., {{HTMLElement("div")}}).
- Stop using `click` [event delegation](https://davidwalsh.name/event-delegate).

Safari Mobile considers the following elements to be typically interactive (and thus they aren't affected by this bug):

- {{HTMLElement("a")}} (but it must have an `href`)
- {{HTMLElement("area")}} (but it must have an `href`)
- {{HTMLElement("button")}}
- {{HTMLElement("img")}}
- {{HTMLElement("input")}}
- {{HTMLElement("label")}} (but it must be associated with a form control)
- {{HTMLElement("textarea")}}
- _This list is incomplete; you can help MDN by doing further testing/research and expanding it._

## Examples

This example displays the number of consecutive clicks on a {{HtmlElement("button")}}.

### HTML

```html
<button>Click</button>
```

### JavaScript

```js
const button = document.querySelector('button');

button.addEventListener('click', (event) => {
  button.textContent = `Click count: ${event.detail}`;
});
```

### Result

Try making rapid, repeated clicks on the button to increase the click count. If you take a break between clicks, the count will reset.

{{EmbedLiveSample("Examples")}}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Introduction to events](/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Events)
- {{domxref("Element/auxclick_event", "auxclick")}}
- {{domxref("Element/contextmenu_event", "contextmenu")}}
- {{domxref("Element/dblclick_event", "dblclick")}}
- {{domxref("Element/mousedown_event", "mousedown")}}
- {{domxref("Element/mouseup_event", "mouseup")}}
- {{domxref("Element/pointerdown_event", "pointerdown")}}
- {{domxref("Element/pointerup_event", "pointerup")}}
