---
title: "Element: auxclick event"
short-title: auxclick
slug: Web/API/Element/auxclick_event
page-type: web-api-event
browser-compat: api.Element.auxclick_event
---

{{APIRef}}

The **`auxclick`** event is fired at an {{domxref("Element")}} when a non-primary pointing device button (any mouse button other than the primary—usually leftmost—button) has been pressed and released both within the same element.

`auxclick` is fired after the {{domxref("Element/mousedown_event", "mousedown")}} and {{domxref("Element/mouseup_event", "mouseup")}} events have been fired, in that order.

## Syntax

Use the event name in methods like {{domxref("EventTarget.addEventListener", "addEventListener()")}}, or set an event handler property.

```js
addEventListener("auxclick", (event) => {});

onauxclick = (event) => {};
```

## Event type

A {{domxref("MouseEvent")}}. Inherits from {{domxref("Event")}}.

{{InheritanceDiagram("MouseEvent")}}

## Event properties

_This interface also inherits properties of its parents, {{domxref("UIEvent")}} and {{domxref("Event")}}._

- {{domxref("MouseEvent.altKey")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>alt</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.button")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The button number that was pressed (if applicable) when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.buttons")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The buttons being pressed (if any) when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer in local (DOM content) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer in local (DOM content) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.ctrlKey")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>control</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.layerX")}} {{Non-standard_inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns the horizontal coordinate of the event relative to the current layer.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.layerY")}} {{Non-standard_inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns the vertical coordinate of the event relative to the current layer.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.metaKey")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>meta</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.movementX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the last {{domxref("Element/mousemove_event", "mousemove")}} event.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.movementY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the last {{domxref("Element/mousemove_event", "mousemove")}} event.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.offsetX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the padding edge of the target node.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.offsetY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the padding edge of the target node.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.pageX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the whole document.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.pageY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the whole document.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.relatedTarget")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The secondary target for the event, if there is one.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.screenX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer in global (screen) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.screenY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer in global (screen) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.shiftKey")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>shift</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.mozInputSource")}} {{non-standard_inline()}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The type of device that generated the event (one of the `MOZ_SOURCE_*` constants).
    This lets you, for example, determine whether a mouse event was generated by an actual mouse or by a touch event (which might affect the degree of accuracy with which you interpret the coordinates associated with the event).
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.webkitForce")}} {{non-standard_inline()}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The amount of pressure applied when clicking.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.x")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Alias for {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientX")}}.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.y")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Alias for {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientY")}}.

## Preventing default actions

For the vast majority of browsers that map middle click to opening a link in a new tab, including Firefox, it is possible to cancel this behavior by calling {{domxref("Event.preventDefault()", "preventDefault()")}} from within an `auxclick` event handler.

When listening for `auxclick` events originating on elements that do not support input or navigation, you will often want to explicitly prevent other default actions mapped to the down action of the middle mouse button. On Windows this is usually autoscroll, and on macOS and Linux this is usually clipboard paste. This can be done by preventing the default behavior of the {{domxref("Element/mousedown_event", "mousedown")}} or {{domxref("Element/pointerdown_event", "pointerdown")}} event.

Additionally, you may need to avoid opening a system context menu after a right click. Due to timing differences between operating systems, this too is not a preventable default behavior of `auxclick`. Instead, this can be done by preventing the default behavior of the {{domxref("Element/contextmenu_event", "contextmenu")}} event.

## Examples

In this example we define functions for two event handlers — {{domxref("Element.click_event", "onclick")}} and `onauxclick`. The former changes the color of the button background, while the latter changes the button foreground (text) color. You also can see the two functions in action by trying the demo out with a multi-button mouse ([see it live on GitHub](https://mdn.github.io/dom-examples/auxclick/); also [see the source code](https://github.com/mdn/dom-examples/blob/main/auxclick/index.html)).

### JavaScript

```js
let button = document.querySelector("button");
let html = document.querySelector("html");

function random(number) {
  return Math.floor(Math.random() * number);
}

function randomColor() {
  return `rgb(${random(255)}, ${random(255)}, ${random(255)})`;
}

button.onclick = () => {
  button.style.backgroundColor = randomColor();
};

button.onauxclick = (e) => {
  e.preventDefault();
  button.style.color = randomColor();
};

button.oncontextmenu = (e) => {
  e.preventDefault();
};
```

Notice that in addition to capturing the `auxclick` event using `onauxclick`, the {{domxref("Element.contextmenu_event", "contextmenu")}} event is also captured, and {{domxref("Event.preventDefault", "preventDefault()")}} called on that event, in order to prevent the context menu from popping up after the color change is applied.

### HTML

```html
<button><h1>Click me!</h1></button>
```

```css hidden
html {
  height: 100%;
  overflow: hidden;
}

body {
  height: inherit;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
  margin: 0;
}

button {
  border: 0;
  background-color: white;
  font-size: 8vw;
  display: block;
  width: 100%;
  height: 100%;
}

h1 {
  letter-spacing: 0.5rem;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("Examples", 640, 300)}}

> **Note:** If you are using a three-button mouse, you'll notice that the `onauxclick` handler is run when any of the non-left mouse buttons are clicked (usually including any "special" buttons on gaming mice).

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Introduction to events](/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Events)
- {{domxref("Element/click_event", "click")}}
- {{domxref("Element/contextmenu_event", "contextmenu")}}
- {{domxref("Element/dblclick_event", "dblclick")}}
- {{domxref("Element/mousedown_event", "mousedown")}}
- {{domxref("Element/mouseup_event", "mouseup")}}
- {{domxref("Element/pointerdown_event", "pointerdown")}}
- {{domxref("Element/pointerup_event", "pointerup")}}
