---
title: "FetchEvent: preloadResponse property"
short-title: preloadResponse
slug: Web/API/FetchEvent/preloadResponse
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.FetchEvent.preloadResponse
---

{{APIRef("Service Workers API")}}{{AvailableInWorkers("service")}}

The **`preloadResponse`** read-only property of the {{domxref("FetchEvent")}} interface returns a {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves to the navigation preload {{domxref("Response")}} if [navigation preload](/en-US/docs/Web/API/NavigationPreloadManager) was triggered, or `undefined` otherwise.

Navigation preload is triggered if [navigation preload is enabled](/en-US/docs/Web/API/NavigationPreloadManager/enable), the request is a `GET` request, and the request is a navigation request (generated by the browser when loading pages and iframes).

A service worker can wait on this promise in its fetch event handler in order to track completion of a fetch request made during service-worker boot.

## Value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves to a {{domxref("Response")}} or otherwise to `undefined`.

## Examples

This code snippet is from [Speed up Service Worker with Navigation Preloads](https://web.dev/blog/navigation-preload).

The {{domxref("ServiceWorkerGlobalScope.fetch_event", "onfetch")}} event handler listens for the `fetch` event.
When fired, the handler calls {{domxref("FetchEvent.respondWith", "FetchEvent.respondWith()")}} to pass a promise back to the controlled page.
This promise will resolve with the requested resource.

If there is a matching URL request in the {{domxref("Cache")}} object, then the code returns a promise for fetching the response from the cache.
If no match is found in the cache, the code returns the promise in `preloadResponse`.
If there is no matching cache or preloaded response, the code fetches the response from the network and returns the associated promise.

```js
addEventListener("fetch", (event) => {
  event.respondWith(
    (async () => {
      // Respond from the cache if we can
      const cachedResponse = await caches.match(event.request);
      if (cachedResponse) return cachedResponse;

      // Else, use the preloaded response, if it's there
      const response = await event.preloadResponse;
      if (response) return response;

      // Else try the network.
      return fetch(event.request);
    })(),
  );
});
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Speed up Service Worker with Navigation Preloads](https://web.dev/blog/navigation-preload)
- [Using Service Workers](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API/Using_Service_Workers)
- [Service workers basic code example](https://github.com/mdn/dom-examples/tree/main/service-worker/simple-service-worker)
- [Using web workers](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Using_web_workers)
