---
title: ::checkmark
slug: Web/CSS/::checkmark
page-type: css-pseudo-element
browser-compat: css.selectors.checkmark
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`::checkmark`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [pseudo-element](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-elements) targets the checkmark placed inside the currently-selected {{htmlelement("option")}} element of a [customizable select element](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Extensions/Forms/Customizable_select) to provide a visual indication of which one is selected.

## Syntax

```css-nolint
::checkmark {
  /* ... */
}
```

### Parameters

None.

## Description

The `::checkmark` pseudo-element targets the checkmark placed inside a [customizable select element's](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Extensions/Forms/Customizable_select) currently-selected `<option>`.

It is only available to target when the originating element has a picker and has base appearance set on it via the {{cssxref("appearance")}} property `base-select` value. Its generated box appears before any boxes generated by the {{cssxref("::before")}} pseudo-element, with the icon specified in default browser stylesheet; you can customize it using the {{cssxref("content")}} property.

The `::checkmark` selector is useful for example if you want to hide the checkmark, use a custom icon, or adjust the checkmark's rendering position inside `<option>` elements.

## Examples

### Customizing the checkmark

To opt-in to customizable select functionality, the `<select>` element and its picker both need to have an {{cssxref("appearance")}} value of `base-select` set on them:

```css
select,
::checkmark(select) {
  appearance: base-select;
}
```

Assuming [flexbox](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flexible_box_layout) is being used to lay out the `<option>` elements (which it is by default in customizable selects), you could then move the checkmark from the start of the row to the end by setting an {{cssxref("order")}} value on it greater than `0`, and aligning it to the end of the row using an `auto` {{cssxref("margin-left")}} value (see [Alignment and auto margins](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_box_alignment/Box_alignment_in_flexbox#alignment_and_auto_margins)).

The value of the {{cssxref("content")}} property could also be set to a different emoji, to set a different icon to display.

```css
option::checkmark {
  order: 1;
  margin-left: auto;
  content: "☑️" / "";
}
```

> [!NOTE]
> When changing the icon like this, you should mark it as decorative by including an empty alt text string after the slash in the `content` property value, as shown above. This causes assistive technology (AT) to not announce anything for it, so it will make more sense to users of those tools. In general, AT and the underlying platform will handle announcing whether an option is selected or not, so you don't need to do it a second time.

See [Styling the current selection checkmark](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Extensions/Forms/Customizable_select#styling_the_current_selection_checkmark) for a full example that uses this code, along with a live example rendering.

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{htmlelement("select")}}, {{htmlelement("option")}}, {{htmlelement("optgroup")}}, {{htmlelement("label")}}, {{htmlelement("button")}}, {{htmlelement("selectedcontent")}}
- {{cssxref("appearance")}}
- {{cssxref("::picker()", "::picker(select)")}}, {{cssxref("::picker-icon")}}
- {{cssxref(":open")}}, {{cssxref(":checked")}}
- [Customizable select elements](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Extensions/Forms/Customizable_select)
