---
title: CloseWatcher
slug: Web/API/CloseWatcher
page-type: web-api-interface
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.CloseWatcher
---

{{APIRef("HTML DOM")}} {{SeeCompatTable}}

The `CloseWatcher` interface allows a custom UI component with open and close semantics to respond to device-specific close actions in the same way as a built-in component.

{{InheritanceDiagram}}

The `CloseWatcher` interface inherits from {{domxref("EventTarget")}}.

## Constructor

- {{domxref("CloseWatcher.CloseWatcher", "CloseWatcher()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Creates a new `CloseWatcher` instance.

## Instance methods

_This interface also inherits methods from its parent, {{domxref("EventTarget")}}._

- {{domxref("CloseWatcher.requestClose()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Fires a `cancel` event and if that event is not canceled with {{domxref("Event.preventDefault()")}}, proceeds to fire a `close` event, and then finally deactivates the close watcher as if `destroy()` was called.
- {{domxref("CloseWatcher.close()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Immediately fires the `close` event, without firing `cancel` first, and deactivates the close watcher as if `destroy()` was called.
- {{domxref("CloseWatcher.destroy()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Deactivates the close watcher so that it will no longer receive `close` events.

## Events

- {{domxref("CloseWatcher.cancel_event", "cancel")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : An event fired before the `close` event, so that `close` can be prevented from firing.
- {{domxref("CloseWatcher.close_event", "close")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : An event fired when a close request was received.

## Description

Some UI components have "close behavior", meaning that the component appears, and the user can close it when they are finished with it. For example: sidebars, popups, dialogs, or notifications.

Users generally expect to be able to use a particular mechanism to close these elements, and the mechanism tends to be device-specific. For example, on a device with a keyboard it might be the <kbd>Esc</kbd> key, but Android might use the back button. For built-in components, such as [popover](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API) or {{htmlelement("dialog")}} elements, the browser takes care of these differences, closing the element when the user performs the close action appropriate for the device. However, when a web developer implements their own closable UI component (for example, a sidebar), it is hard to implement this kind of device-specific close behavior.

The `CloseWatcher` interface solves this problem by delivering a `cancel` event, followed by a `close` event, when the user executes the device-specific close action.
Web applications can use the `onclose` handler to close the UI element in response to the device-specific event.
They can also trigger these same events in response to the UI element's normal closing mechanism, and then implement common `close` event handling for both the application- and device-specific close action.
Once the `onclose` event handler completes the `CloseWatcher` is destroyed and the events will no longer be fired.

In some applications the UI element may only be allowed to close when it is in a particular state; for example, when some needed information is populated.
To address these cases, applications can prevent the `close` event from being emitted by implementing a handler for the `cancel` event that calls {{domxref("Event.preventDefault()")}} if the UI element is not ready to close.

You can create `CloseWatcher` instances without [user activation](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/User_activation), and this can be useful to implement cases like session inactivity timeout dialogs. However, if you create more than one `CloseWatcher` without user activation, then the watchers will be grouped, so a single close request will close them both.
In addition, the first close watcher does not necessarily have to be a `CloseWatcher` object: it could be a modal dialog element, or a popover generated by an element with the popover attribute

## Examples

### Processing close requests

In this example, you have your own UI component (a picker) and you want to support both, the platform's default close method (e.g., the <kbd>Esc</kbd> key) and your custom close method (a close button).

You create a `CloseWatcher` to handle all `close` events.

The `onclick` handler of your UI component can call `requestClose` to request a close and to route your close request through the same `onclose` handler the platform close method uses.

```js
const watcher = new CloseWatcher();
const picker = setUpAndShowPickerDOMElement();
let chosenValue = null;

watcher.onclose = () => {
  chosenValue = picker.querySelector("input").value;
  picker.remove();
};

picker.querySelector(".close-button").onclick = () => watcher.requestClose();
```

### Closing a sidebar using a platform close request

In this example we have a sidebar component that is displayed when an "Open" button is selected, and hidden using either a "Close" button or platform-native mechanisms.
To make it more interesting, this is a live example!

Note also that the example is a little contrived, because normally we would use a toggle button to change a sidebar state.
We could certainly do that, but using separate "Open" and "Close" buttons makes it easier to demonstrate the feature.

#### HTML

The HTML defines "Open" and "Close" {{htmlelement("button")}} elements, along with {{htmlelement("div")}} elements for the main content and the sidebar.
CSS is used to animate the display of the sidebar element when the `open` class is added or removed from the sidebar and content elements (this CSS is hidden because it is not relevant to the example).

```html
<button id="sidebar-open" type="button">Open</button>
<button id="sidebar-close" type="button">Close</button>
<div class="sidebar">Sidebar</div>
<div class="main-content">Main content</div>
```

```css hidden
.sidebar {
  position: fixed;
  top: 20px;
  left: -300px;
  right: auto;
  bottom: 0;
  width: 300px; /* Adjust the width as needed */
  background-color: lightblue;
}

.main-content {
  position: fixed;
  top: 20px;
  left: 0;
  right: 0;
  bottom: 0;
  width: auto; /* Adjust the width as needed */
  background-color: green;
  margin-left: 0px; /* Adjust for the sidebar width */
}

.sidebar.open {
  left: 0; /* Slide the sidebar to the right when open */
  transition: left 0.3s ease-in-out; /* Add a smooth transition effect */
}

.main-content.open {
  margin-left: 300px; /* Adjust for the sidebar width */
  transition: margin-left 0.3s ease-in-out;
  background-color: green;
}
```

#### JavaScript

The code first gets variables for the buttons and `<div>` elements defined in the HTML.
It also defines a function `closeSidebar()` that is called when the sidebar is closed, to remove the `open` class from the `<div>` elements, and adds a `click` event listener that calls the `openSidebar()` method when the "Open" button is clicked.

```js
const sidebar = document.querySelector(".sidebar");
const mainContent = document.querySelector(".main-content");
const sidebarOpen = document.getElementById("sidebar-open");
const sidebarClose = document.getElementById("sidebar-close");

function closeSidebar() {
  sidebar.classList.remove("open");
  mainContent.classList.remove("open");
}

sidebarOpen.addEventListener("click", openSidebar);
```

The implementation of `openSidebar()` is given below.
The method first checks if the sidebar is already open, and if not, adds the `open` class to the elements so that the sidebar is displayed.

We then create a new `CloseWatcher` and add a listener that will call {{domxref("CloseWatcher.close()", "close()")}} on it if the "Close" button is clicked.
This ensures that the `close` event is called when either platform native close methods or the "Close" button are used.
The implementation of the `onclose()` event handler simply closes the sidebar, and the `CloseWatcher` is then destroyed automatically.

```js
function openSidebar() {
  if (!sidebar.classList.contains("open")) {
    sidebar.classList.add("open");
    mainContent.classList.add("open");

    // Add new CloseWatcher
    const watcher = new CloseWatcher();

    sidebarClose.addEventListener("click", () => watcher.close());

    // Handle close event, invoked by platform mechanisms or "Close" button
    watcher.onclose = () => {
      closeSidebar();
    };
  }
}
```

Note that we chose to call `close()` on the watcher instead of {{domxref("CloseWatcher.requestClose()")}} because we don't need the `cancel` event to be emitted (we would use `requestClose()` and the `cancel` event handler if there was a reason to ever prevent the sidebar from closing prematurely).

#### Result

Select the "Open" button to open the sidebar. You should be able to close the sidebar using the "Close" button or the usual platform method, such as the <kbd>Esc</kbd> key on Windows.

{{ EmbedLiveSample("Closing a sidebar using a platform close request", "100%", "200") }}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{domxref("HTMLDialogElement.close_event", "close")}} event on {{domxref("HTMLDialogElement")}}
