---
title: GPUCompilationMessage
slug: Web/API/GPUCompilationMessage
page-type: web-api-interface
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.GPUCompilationMessage
---

{{APIRef("WebGPU API")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}{{SecureContext_Header}}{{AvailableInWorkers}}

The **`GPUCompilationMessage`** interface of the {{domxref("WebGPU API", "WebGPU API", "", "nocode")}} represents a single informational, warning, or error message generated by the GPU shader module compiler.

An array of `GPUCompilationMessage` objects is available in the `messages` property of the {{domxref("GPUCompilationInfo")}} object accessed via {{domxref("GPUShaderModule.getCompilationInfo()")}}.

{{InheritanceDiagram}}

## Instance properties

- {{domxref("GPUCompilationMessage.length", "length")}} {{Experimental_Inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : A number representing the length of the substring that the message corresponds to.
- {{domxref("GPUCompilationMessage.lineNum", "lineNum")}} {{Experimental_Inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : A number representing the line number in the shader code that the message corresponds to.
- {{domxref("GPUCompilationMessage.linePos", "linePos")}} {{Experimental_Inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : A number representing the position in the code line that the message corresponds to. This could be an exact point, or the start of the relevant substring.
- {{domxref("GPUCompilationMessage.message", "message")}} {{Experimental_Inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : A string representing human-readable message text.
- {{domxref("GPUCompilationMessage.offset", "offset")}} {{Experimental_Inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : A number representing the offset from the start of the shader code to the exact point, or the start of the relevant substring, that the message corresponds to.
- {{domxref("GPUCompilationMessage.type", "type")}} {{Experimental_Inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : An enumerated value representing the type of the message — `"error"`, `"info"`, or `"warning"`.

## Examples

See the main [`GPUCompilationInfo` page](/en-US/docs/Web/API/GPUCompilationInfo#examples) for an example.

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- The [WebGPU API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebGPU_API)
