---
title: Regular expressions
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions
page-type: landing-page
browser-compat: javascript.regular_expressions
---

{{JsSidebar}}

A **regular expression** (_regex_ for short) allow developers to match strings against a pattern, extract submatch information, or simply test if the string conforms to that pattern. Regular expressions are used in many programming languages, and JavaScript's syntax is inspired by [Perl](https://www.perl.org/).

You are encouraged to read the [regular expressions guide](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_expressions) to get an overview of the available regex syntaxes and how they work.

## Description

[_Regular expressions_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression) are a important concept in formal language theory. They are a way to describe a possibly infinite set of character strings (called a _language_). A regular expression, at its core, needs the following features:

- A set of _characters_ that can be used in the language, called the _alphabet_.
- _Concatenation_: `ab` means "the character `a` followed by the character `b`".
- _Union_: `a|b` means "either `a` or `b`".
- _Kleene star_: `a*` means "zero or more `a` characters".

Assuming a finite alphabet (such as the 26 letters of the English alphabet, or the entire Unicode character set), all regular languages can be generated by the features above. Of course, many patterns are very tedious to express this way (such as "10 digits" or "a character that's not a space"), so JavaScript regular expressions include many shorthands, introduced below.

> **Note:** JavaScript regular expressions are in fact not regular, due to the existence of [backreferences](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Backreference) (regular expressions must have finite states). However, they are still a very useful feature.

### Creating regular expressions

A regular expression is typically created as a literal by enclosing a pattern in forward slashes (`/`):

### Regex flags

### Assertions

- [Input boundary assertion: `^`, `$`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Input_boundary_assertion)
  - : Asserts that the current position is the start or end of input, or start or end of a line if the `m` flag is set.
- [Word boundary assertion: `\b`, `\B`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Word_boundary_assertion)
  - : Asserts that the current position is a word boundary.
- [Lookahead assertion: `(?=...)`, `(?!...)`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Lookahead_assertion)
  - : Asserts that the current position is followed or not followed by a certain pattern.
- [Lookbehind assertion: `(?<=...)`, `(?<!...)`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Lookbehind_assertion)
  - : Asserts that the current position is preceded or not preceded by a certain pattern.

### Atoms

- [Wildcard: `.`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Wildcard)
  - : Matches any character except line terminators, unless the `s` flag is set.
- [Character class: `[...]`, `[^...]`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Character_class)
  - : Matches any character in or not in a set of characters.
- [Capturing group: `(...)`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Capturing_group)
  - : Matches a subpattern and remembers information about the match.
- [Non-capturing group: `(?:...)`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Non-capturing_group)
  - : Matches a subpattern without remembering information about the match.
- [Named capturing group: `(?<name>...)`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Named_capturing_group)
  - : Matches a subpattern and remembers information about the match. The group can later be identified by a custom name instead of by its index in the pattern.
- [Backreference: `\1`, `\2`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Backreference)
  - : Matches a previously matched subpattern captured with a capturing group.
- [Named backreference: `\k<name>`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Named_backreference)
  - : Matches a previously matched subpattern captured with a named capturing group.
- [Character class escape: `\d`, `\D`, `\w`, `\W`, `\s`, `\S`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Character_class_escape)
  - : Matches any character in or not in a predefined set of characters.
- [Unicode character class escape: `\p{...}`, `\P{...}`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Unicode_character_class_escape)
  - : Matches any character in or not in a set of Unicode characters identified by a Unicode property.
- [Character escape: `\n`, `\u{...}`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Character_escape)
  - : Matches a character that may not be able to be conveniently represented in its literal form.

### Other features

- [Quantifier: `*`, `+`, `?`, `{n}`, `{n,}`, `{n,m}`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Quantifier)
  - : Matches an atom a certain number of times.
- [Disjunction: `|`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Disjunction)
  - : Matches any of a set of alternatives separated by the `|` character.

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Operator precedence](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Operator_Precedence)
