---
title: AuthenticatorAttestationResponse
slug: Web/API/AuthenticatorAttestationResponse
page-type: web-api-interface
browser-compat: api.AuthenticatorAttestationResponse
---

{{APIRef("Web Authentication API")}}{{securecontext_header}}

The **`AuthenticatorAttestationResponse`** interface of the [Web Authentication API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API) provides a cryptographic root of trust for a newly-created key pair. The data from this response should be sent to the relying party's server to complete the creation of the credential.

An `AuthenticatorAttestationResponse` object instance is available in the {{domxref("PublicKeyCredential.response", "response")}} property of a {{domxref("PublicKeyCredential")}} object returned by a successful {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.create()")}} call.

This interface inherits from {{domxref("AuthenticatorResponse")}}.

{{InheritanceDiagram}}

> **Note:** This interface is restricted to top-level contexts. Use of its features from within an {{HTMLElement("iframe")}} element will not have any effect.

## Instance properties

_Also inherits properties from its parent, {{domxref("AuthenticatorResponse")}}._

- {{domxref("AuthenticatorAttestationResponse.attestationObject")}} {{securecontext_inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : An {{jsxref("ArrayBuffer")}} containing authenticator data and an attestation statement for a newly-created key pair. This data is opaque to, and cryptographically protected against tampering by, the client.
- {{domxref("AuthenticatorResponse.clientDataJSON")}} {{securecontext_inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Inherited from {{domxref("AuthenticatorResponse")}}, this property contains the JSON-compatible serialization of client data passed to the authenticator by the client in order to generate this credential (i.e. the options paramater passed into the originating {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.create()")}} call).

## Instance methods

- {{domxref("AuthenticatorAttestationResponse.getAuthenticatorData()")}} {{securecontext_inline}}
  - : Returns an {{jsxref("ArrayBuffer")}} containing the authenticator data contained within the {{domxref("AuthenticatorAttestationResponse.attestationObject")}} property.
- {{domxref("AuthenticatorAttestationResponse.getPublicKey()")}} {{securecontext_inline}}
  - : Returns an {{jsxref("ArrayBuffer")}} containing the DER `SubjectPublicKeyInfo` of the new credential (see [Subject Public Key Info](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5280#section-4.1.2.7)), or `null` if this is not available.
- {{domxref("AuthenticatorAttestationResponse.getPublicKeyAlgorithm()")}} {{securecontext_inline}}
  - : Returns a number that is equal to a [COSE Algorithm Identifier](https://www.iana.org/assignments/cose/cose.xhtml#algorithms), representing the cryptographic algorithm used for the new credential.
- {{domxref("AuthenticatorAttestationResponse.getTransports()")}} {{securecontext_inline}}
  - : Returns an array of strings describing which transport methods (e.g., `usb`, `nfc`) are believed to be supported with the authenticator. The array may be empty if the information is not available.

## Examples

```js
const publicKey = {
  challenge: new Uint8Array([
    21, 31, 105 /* 29 more random bytes generated by the server */,
  ]),
  rp: {
    name: "Example CORP",
    id: "login.example.com",
  },
  user: {
    id: new Uint8Array(16),
    name: "jdoe@example.com",
    displayName: "John Doe",
  },
  pubKeyCredParams: [
    {
      type: "public-key",
      alg: -7,
    },
  ],
};

navigator.credentials
  .create({ publicKey })
  .then((newCredentialInfo) => {
    const response = newCredentialInfo.response;
    // Do something with the response
    // (sending it back to the relying party server maybe?)
  })
  .catch((err) => console.error(err));
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{domxref("AuthenticatorAssertionResponse")}}: the interface for the type of response given when retrieving an existing credential
- {{domxref("AuthenticatorResponse")}}: the parent interface
