---
title: "PublicKeyCredential: parseCreationOptionsFromJSON() static method"
short-title: parseCreationOptionsFromJSON()
slug: Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/parseCreationOptionsFromJSON_static
page-type: web-api-static-method
browser-compat: api.PublicKeyCredential.parseCreationOptionsFromJSON_static
---

{{APIRef("Web Authentication API")}}{{securecontext_header}}

The **`parseCreationOptionsFromJSON()`** static method of the {{domxref("PublicKeyCredential")}} interface creates a {{domxref("PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions")}} object from a JSON representation of its properties.

The method is a convenience function for converting credential options information provided by a relying party server to the form that a web app can use to [create a credential](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API#creating_a_key_pair_and_registering_a_user).

## Syntax

```js-nolint
PublicKeyCredential.parseCreationOptionsFromJSON(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options`

  - : An object with the same structure as a {{domxref("PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions")}}, but with [base64url](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Base64)-encoded strings used in place of buffer properties.

### Return value

A {{domxref("PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions")}} object.

### Exceptions

- `EncodingError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown the `options` object cannot be converted into a {{domxref("PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions")}} object.

## Description

The Web Authentication process for [creating a key pair and registering a user](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API#creating_a_key_pair_and_registering_a_user) involves a relying party server sending the web app information needed to create a credential, including details about the user identity, the relying party, and a "challenge".
The web app passes this information to an authenticator to create the credential, by calling [`navigator.credentials.create()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/create) with a {{domxref("PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions")}} object as an argument.

The specification does not define how the information needed for creating a credential is sent.
A convenient approach is for the server to encapsulate the information in a {{glossary("JSON type representation")}} of the {{domxref("PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions")}} object that mirrors its structure but encodes buffer properties such as the `challenge` and `user.id` as [base64url](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Base64) strings.
This object can be serialized to a [JSON](/en-US/docs/Glossary/JSON) string, sent to the web app and deserialized, and then converted to a {{domxref("PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions")}} object using **`parseCreationOptionsFromJSON()`**.

## Examples

When registering a new user, a relying party server will supply information about the expected credentials to the web app.
The code below defines this information in the form described in the [`options` parameter](#options) above (taken from the ["getting an AuthenticatorAttestationResponse"](/en-US/docs/Web/API/AuthenticatorResponse#getting_an_authenticatorattestationresponse) in `AuthenticatorResponse`):

```js
const createCredentialOptionsJSON = {
  challenge:
    "21, 31, 105, " /* 29 more random bytes generated by the server in this string */,
  rp: {
    name: "Example CORP",
    id: "login.example.com",
  },
  user: {
    id: "16",
    name: "canand@example.com",
    displayName: "Carina Anand",
  },
  pubKeyCredParams: [
    {
      type: "public-key",
      alg: -7,
    },
  ],
};
```

Because this object only uses JSON data types, it can be serialized to JSON using [`JSON.stringify()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify) and sent to the web app.

```js
JSON.stringify(createCredentialOptionsJSON);
```

The web app can deserialize the JSON string back to a `createCredentialOptionsJSON` object (not shown).
The **`parseCreationOptionsFromJSON()`** method is used to convert that object to the form that can be used in `navigator.credentials.create()`:

```js
// Convert options to form used by create()
const createCredentialOptions =
  PublicKeyCredential.parseCreationOptionsFromJSON(
    createCredentialOptionsJSON, // JSON-type representation
  );

navigator.credentials
  .create({ publicKey: createCredentialOptions })
  .then((newCredentialInfo) => {
    // Handle the new credential information here.
  })
  .catch((err) => {
    console.error(err);
  });
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Web Authentication API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API)
- {{domxref("PublicKeyCredential.parseRequestOptionsFromJSON_static", "PublicKeyCredential.parseRequestOptionsFromJSON()")}}
- {{domxref("PublicKeyCredential.toJSON()")}}
