---
title: 'Element: mouseout event'
slug: Web/API/Element/mouseout_event
page-type: web-api-event
tags:
  - API
  - DOM
  - Event
  - Interface
  - MouseEvent
  - Reference
  - mouse
  - mouseout
  - move
browser-compat: api.Element.mouseout_event
---
{{APIRef}}

The **`mouseout`** event is fired at an {{domxref("Element")}} when a pointing device (usually a mouse) is used to move the cursor so that it is no longer contained within the element or one of its children.

`mouseout` is also delivered to an element if the cursor enters a child element, because the child element obscures the visible area of the element.

## Syntax

Use the event name in methods like {{domxref("EventTarget.addEventListener", "addEventListener()")}}, or set an event handler property.

```js
addEventListener('mouseout', (event) => {});

onmouseout = (event) => { };
```

## Event type

A {{domxref("MouseEvent")}}. Inherits from {{domxref("Event")}}.

{{InheritanceDiagram("MouseEvent")}}

## Event properties

_This interface also inherits properties of its parents, {{domxref("UIEvent")}} and {{domxref("Event")}}._

- {{domxref("MouseEvent.altKey")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>alt</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.button")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The button number that was pressed (if applicable) when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.buttons")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The buttons being pressed (if any) when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer in local (DOM content) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer in local (DOM content) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.ctrlKey")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>control</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.layerX")}} {{Non-standard_inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns the horizontal coordinate of the event relative to the current layer.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.layerY")}} {{Non-standard_inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns the vertical coordinate of the event relative to the current layer.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.metaKey")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>meta</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.movementX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the last {{domxref("Element/mousemove_event", "mousemove")}} event.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.movementY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the last {{domxref("Element/mousemove_event", "mousemove")}} event.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.offsetX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the padding edge of the target node.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.offsetY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the padding edge of the target node.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.pageX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the whole document.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.pageY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the whole document.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.relatedTarget")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The secondary target for the event, if there is one.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.screenX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer in global (screen) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.screenY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer in global (screen) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.shiftKey")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>shift</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.mozPressure")}} {{non-standard_inline()}} {{deprecated_inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The amount of pressure applied to a touch or tablet device when generating the event; this value ranges between `0.0` (minimum pressure) and `1.0` (maximum pressure).
    Instead of using this deprecated (and non-standard) property, you should use {{domxref("PointerEvent")}} and look at its {{domxref("PointerEvent.pressure", "pressure")}} property.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.mozInputSource")}} {{non-standard_inline()}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The type of device that generated the event (one of the `MOZ_SOURCE_*` constants).
    This lets you, for example, determine whether a mouse event was generated by an actual mouse or by a touch event (which might affect the degree of accuracy with which you interpret the coordinates associated with the event).
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.webkitForce")}} {{non-standard_inline()}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The amount of pressure applied when clicking
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.x")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Alias for {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientX")}}.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.y")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Alias for {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientY")}}

## Examples

The following examples show the use of the `mouseout` event.

### mouseout and mouseleave

The following example illustrates the difference between `mouseout` and {{domxref("Element/mouseleave_event", "mouseleave")}} events. The `mouseleave` event is added to the {{HTMLElement("ul")}} to color the list purple whenever the mouse exits the `<ul>`. `mouseout` is added to the list to color the targeted element orange when the mouse exits it.

When you try this out, you'll find that `mouseout` is delivered to the individual list items, while `mouseleave` goes to the overall list, courtesy of the hierarchy of the items and the fact that list items obscure the underlying `<ul>`.

#### HTML

```html
<ul id="test">
  <li>item 1</li>
  <li>item 2</li>
  <li>item 3</li>
</ul>
```

#### JavaScript

```js
const test = document.getElementById("test");

// Briefly make the list purple when the mouse moves off the
// <ul> element
test.addEventListener("mouseleave", (event) => {
  // highlight the mouseleave target
  event.target.style.color = "purple";

  // reset the color after a short delay
  setTimeout(() => {
    event.target.style.color = "";
  }, 1000);
}, false);

// Briefly make an <li> orange when the mouse moves off of it
test.addEventListener("mouseout", (event) => {
  // highlight the mouseout target
  event.target.style.color = "orange";

  // reset the color after a short delay
  setTimeout(() => {
    event.target.style.color = "";
  }, 500);
}, false);
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("mouseout_and_mouseleave", 640, 200)}}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Introduction to events](/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Events)
- {{domxref("Element/mousedown_event", "mousedown")}}
- {{domxref("Element/mouseup_event", "mouseup")}}
- {{domxref("Element/mousemove_event", "mousemove")}}
- {{domxref("Element/click_event", "click")}}
- {{domxref("Element/dblclick_event", "dblclick")}}
- {{domxref("Element/mouseover_event", "mouseover")}}
- {{domxref("Element/mouseenter_event", "mouseenter")}}
- {{domxref("Element/mouseleave_event", "mouseleave")}}
- {{domxref("Element/contextmenu_event", "contextmenu")}}
