---
title: ::picker-icon
slug: Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/::picker-icon
page-type: css-pseudo-element
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: css.selectors.picker-icon
sidebar: cssref
---

{{SeeCompatTable}}

The **`::picker-icon`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [pseudo-element](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/Pseudo-elements) targets the picker icon inside form controls that have an icon associated with them. In the case of a [customizable select element](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Extensions/Forms/Customizable_select), it selects the arrow icon shown on the `<select>` element that points down when it is closed.

## Syntax

```css-nolint
::picker-icon {
  /* ... */
}
```

## Description

The `::picker-icon` pseudo-element targets the picker icon of form controls, that is, the icon shown on the control button. It is only available to target when the originating element has a picker and has base appearance set on it via the {{cssxref("appearance")}} property `base-select` value. Its generated box appears after any boxes generated by the {{cssxref("::after")}} pseudo-element, with the icon specified in default browser stylesheet; you can customize it using the {{cssxref("content")}} property.

The `::picker-icon` selector can be used to select the down-facing arrow on the inline-end side of a [customizable select element](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Extensions/Forms/Customizable_select). This is useful for example if you want to customize the color or size of the icon, use a different icon (using {{cssxref("content")}} or [SVG](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG)), or animate it when the picker is opened and closed.

Selecting customizable `<select>` picker icons is the only current use case for `::picker-icon`, but more may be added in the future.

> [!NOTE]
> The `::picker-icon` pseudo-element is not included in the accessibility tree, so any generated {{cssxref("content")}} set on it will not be announced by assistive technologies. You should still make sure that any new icon you set visually makes sense for its intended purpose.

## Examples

### Animating the picker icon

To opt-in to customizable select functionality, the `<select>` element and its picker both need to have an {{cssxref("appearance")}} value of `base-select` set on them:

```css
select,
::picker(select) {
  appearance: base-select;
}
```

You could then, for example, target the `::picker-icon` and give it a custom {{cssxref("color")}} and a {{cssxref("transition")}} so that changes to its {{cssxref("rotate")}} property are smoothly animated:

```css
select::picker-icon {
  color: #999999;
  transition: 0.4s rotate;
}
```

In the next rule, `::picker-icon` is combined with the {{cssxref(":open")}} pseudo-class — which targets the icon only when the picker is open — transitioning it to a `rotate` value of `180deg` when the `<select>` is opened.

```css
select:open::picker-icon {
  rotate: 180deg;
}
```

See [Styling the picker icon](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Extensions/Forms/Customizable_select#styling_the_picker_icon) for a full example that uses this code, along with a live example rendering.

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{htmlelement("select")}}, {{htmlelement("option")}}, {{htmlelement("optgroup")}}, {{htmlelement("label")}}, {{htmlelement("button")}}, {{htmlelement("selectedcontent")}}
- {{cssxref("appearance")}}
- {{cssxref("::picker()", "::picker(select)")}}, {{cssxref("::checkmark")}}
- {{cssxref(":open")}}, {{cssxref(":checked")}}
- [Customizable select elements](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Extensions/Forms/Customizable_select)
