---
title: "Element: mousemove event"
short-title: mousemove
slug: Web/API/Element/mousemove_event
page-type: web-api-event
browser-compat: api.Element.mousemove_event
---

{{APIRef}}

The `mousemove` event is fired at an element when a pointing device (usually a mouse) is moved while the cursor's hotspot is inside it.

## Syntax

Use the event name in methods like {{domxref("EventTarget.addEventListener", "addEventListener()")}}, or set an event handler property.

```js
addEventListener("mousemove", (event) => {});

onmousemove = (event) => {};
```

## Event type

A {{domxref("MouseEvent")}}. Inherits from {{domxref("Event")}}.

{{InheritanceDiagram("MouseEvent")}}

## Event properties

_This interface also inherits properties of its parents, {{domxref("UIEvent")}} and {{domxref("Event")}}._

- {{domxref("MouseEvent.altKey")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>alt</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.button")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The button number that was pressed (if applicable) when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.buttons")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The buttons being pressed (if any) when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer in local (DOM content) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer in local (DOM content) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.ctrlKey")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>control</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.layerX")}} {{Non-standard_inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns the horizontal coordinate of the event relative to the current layer.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.layerY")}} {{Non-standard_inline}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns the vertical coordinate of the event relative to the current layer.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.metaKey")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>meta</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.movementX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the last {{domxref("Element/mousemove_event", "mousemove")}} event.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.movementY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the last {{domxref("Element/mousemove_event", "mousemove")}} event.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.offsetX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the padding edge of the target node.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.offsetY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the padding edge of the target node.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.pageX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the whole document.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.pageY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the whole document.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.relatedTarget")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The secondary target for the event, if there is one.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.screenX")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer in global (screen) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.screenY")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer in global (screen) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.shiftKey")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>shift</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.mozInputSource")}} {{non-standard_inline()}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The type of device that generated the event (one of the `MOZ_SOURCE_*` constants).
    This lets you, for example, determine whether a mouse event was generated by an actual mouse or by a touch event (which might affect the degree of accuracy with which you interpret the coordinates associated with the event).
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.webkitForce")}} {{non-standard_inline()}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : The amount of pressure applied when clicking.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.x")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Alias for {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientX")}}.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.y")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Alias for {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientY")}}.

## Examples

The following example uses the {{domxref("Element/mousedown_event", "mousedown")}}, `mousemove`, and {{domxref("Element/mouseup_event", "mouseup")}} events to allow the user to draw on an HTML [canvas](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API). Its functionality is simple: the thickness of the line is set to 1, and the color is always black.

When the page loads, constants `myPics` and `context` are created to store a reference to the canvas and the 2d context we will use to draw.

Drawing begins when the `mousedown` event fires. First we store the x and y coordinates of the mouse pointer in the variables `x` and `y`, and then set `isDrawing` to true.

As the mouse moves over the page, the `mousemove` event fires. If `isDrawing` is true, the event handler calls the `drawLine` function to draw a line from the stored `x` and `y` values to the current location.

When the `drawLine()` function returns, we adjust the coordinates and then save them in `x` and `y`.

The `mouseup` event draws the final line segment, sets `x` and `y` to `0`, and stops further drawing by setting `isDrawing` to `false`.

### HTML

```html
<h1>Drawing with mouse events</h1>
<canvas id="myPics" width="560" height="360"></canvas>
```

### CSS

```css
canvas {
  border: 1px solid black;
  width: 560px;
  height: 360px;
}
```

### JavaScript

```js
// When true, moving the mouse draws on the canvas
let isDrawing = false;
let x = 0;
let y = 0;

const myPics = document.getElementById("myPics");
const context = myPics.getContext("2d");

// event.offsetX, event.offsetY gives the (x,y) offset from the edge of the canvas.

// Add the event listeners for mousedown, mousemove, and mouseup
myPics.addEventListener("mousedown", (e) => {
  x = e.offsetX;
  y = e.offsetY;
  isDrawing = true;
});

myPics.addEventListener("mousemove", (e) => {
  if (isDrawing) {
    drawLine(context, x, y, e.offsetX, e.offsetY);
    x = e.offsetX;
    y = e.offsetY;
  }
});

window.addEventListener("mouseup", (e) => {
  if (isDrawing) {
    drawLine(context, x, y, e.offsetX, e.offsetY);
    x = 0;
    y = 0;
    isDrawing = false;
  }
});

function drawLine(context, x1, y1, x2, y2) {
  context.beginPath();
  context.strokeStyle = "black";
  context.lineWidth = 1;
  context.moveTo(x1, y1);
  context.lineTo(x2, y2);
  context.stroke();
  context.closePath();
}
```

### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("Examples", 640, 450)}}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Introduction to events](/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Events)
- {{domxref("Element/mousedown_event", "mousedown")}}
- {{domxref("Element/mouseup_event", "mouseup")}}
- {{domxref("Element/click_event", "click")}}
- {{domxref("Element/dblclick_event", "dblclick")}}
- {{domxref("Element/mouseover_event", "mouseover")}}
- {{domxref("Element/mouseout_event", "mouseout")}}
- {{domxref("Element/mouseenter_event", "mouseenter")}}
- {{domxref("Element/mouseleave_event", "mouseleave")}}
- {{domxref("Element/contextmenu_event", "contextmenu")}}
