---
title: Pseudo-classes and pseudo-elements
short-title: Pseudo-classes and elements
slug: Learn_web_development/Core/Styling_basics/Pseudo_classes_and_elements
page-type: learn-module-chapter
sidebar: learnsidebar
---

{{PreviousMenuNext("Learn_web_development/Core/Styling_basics/Attribute_selectors", "Learn_web_development/Core/Styling_basics/Combinators", "Learn_web_development/Core/Styling_basics")}}

The next set of selectors we will look at are referred to as **pseudo-classes** and **pseudo-elements**. There are a large number of these, and they often serve quite specific purposes. Once you know how to use them, you can look through the different types to see if there is something which works for the task you are trying to achieve.

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Prerequisites:</th>
      <td>
        HTML basics (study
        <a href="/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Core/Structuring_content/Basic_HTML_syntax"
          >Basic HTML syntax</a
        >), <a href="/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Core/Styling_basics/Basic_selectors">Basic CSS selectors</a>.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Learning outcomes:</th>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>Pseudo-classes and pseudo-elements.</li>
          <li>The difference between the two.</li>
          <li>Combining pseudo-classes and pseudo-elements.</li>
          <li>Generated content.</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## What is a pseudo-class?

A pseudo-class is a selector that selects elements that are in a specific state, for example, they are the first element of their type, or they are being hovered over by the mouse pointer. They tend to act as if you had applied a class to some part of your document, often helping you cut down on excess classes in your markup, and giving you more flexible, maintainable code.

Pseudo-classes are keywords that start with a colon. For example, `:hover` is a pseudo-class.

### Basic pseudo-class example

Let's look at a basic example. If we wanted to make the first paragraph in an article larger and bold, we could add a class to that paragraph and then add CSS to that class:

```html live-sample___first-child
<article>
  <p class="first">
    Veggies es bonus vobis, proinde vos postulo essum magis kohlrabi welsh onion
    daikon amaranth tatsoi tomatillo melon azuki bean garlic.
  </p>

  <p>
    Gumbo beet greens corn soko endive gumbo gourd. Parsley shallot courgette
    tatsoi pea sprouts fava bean collard greens dandelion okra wakame tomato.
    Dandelion cucumber earthnut pea peanut soko zucchini.
  </p>
</article>
```

```css live-sample___first-child
.first {
  font-size: 120%;
  font-weight: bold;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("first-child")}}

However, this could be annoying to maintain — what if a new paragraph got added to the top of the document? We'd need to move the class over to the new paragraph. Instead of adding the class, we could use the {{cssxref(":first-child")}} pseudo-class selector — this will _always_ target the first child element of an element (the `<article>` in this case), and we will no longer need to edit the HTML (this may not always be possible anyway, maybe due to it being generated by a CMS).

```html live-sample___first-child2
<article>
  <p>
    Veggies es bonus vobis, proinde vos postulo essum magis kohlrabi welsh onion
    daikon amaranth tatsoi tomatillo melon azuki bean garlic.
  </p>

  <p>
    Gumbo beet greens corn soko endive gumbo gourd. Parsley shallot courgette
    tatsoi pea sprouts fava bean collard greens dandelion okra wakame tomato.
    Dandelion cucumber earthnut pea peanut soko zucchini.
  </p>
</article>
```

```css live-sample___first-child2
article p:first-child {
  font-size: 120%;
  font-weight: bold;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("first-child2")}}

All pseudo-classes behave like this. They target some bit of your document that is in a certain state, behaving as if you had added a class into your HTML.

> [!NOTE]
> It is valid to write pseudo-classes and elements without any element selector preceding them. In the example above, you could write `:first-child` and the rule would apply to _any_ element that is the first child of an `<article>` element, not just a paragraph first child — `:first-child` is equivalent to `*:first-child`. However, usually you want more control than that, so you need to be more specific.

### User-action pseudo classes

Some pseudo-classes only apply when the user interacts with the document in some way. These **user-action** pseudo-classes, sometimes referred to as **dynamic pseudo-classes**, act as if a class had been added to the element when the user interacts with it. Examples include:

- [`:hover`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/:hover) — mentioned above; this only applies if the user moves their pointer over an element, typically a link.
- [`:focus`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/:focus) — only applies if the user focuses the element by clicking or using keyboard controls.

```html live-sample___hover
<p><a href="">Hover over me</a></p>
```

```css live-sample___hover
a:link,
a:visited {
  color: rebeccapurple;
  font-weight: bold;
}

a:hover {
  color: hotpink;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("hover")}}

### Playing with pseudo-classes

Go back to our [first pseudo-class example](#basic_pseudo-class_example) and edit the CSS using the MDN playground:

1. Add a rule that colors the paragraph text `blue` when they are hovered over.
2. Add a rule that selects only the last paragraph inside the article, and gives it an `orange` `background-color`.

You can find information on all the other available pseudo-classes on the MDN [Pseudo-classes](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/Pseudo-classes) reference page.

## What is a pseudo-element?

Pseudo-elements behave in a similar way. However, they act as if you had added a whole new HTML element into the markup, rather than applying a class to existing elements.

Pseudo-elements start with a double colon `::`. `::before` is an example of a pseudo-element.

> [!NOTE]
> Some early pseudo-elements used the single colon syntax, so you may sometimes see this in code or examples. Modern browsers support the early pseudo-elements with single- or double-colon syntax for backwards compatibility.

For example, if you wanted to select the first line of a paragraph you could wrap it in a `<span>` element and use an element selector; however, that would fail if the number of words you had wrapped were longer or shorter than the parent element's width. As we tend not to know how many words will fit on a line — as that will change if the screen width or font-size changes — it is impossible to robustly do this by adding HTML.

The `::first-line` pseudo-element selector will do this for you reliably — if the number of words increases or decreases it will still only select the first line.

```html live-sample___first-line
<article>
  <p>
    Veggies es bonus vobis, proinde vos postulo essum magis kohlrabi welsh onion
    daikon amaranth tatsoi tomatillo melon azuki bean garlic.
  </p>

  <p>
    Gumbo beet greens corn soko endive gumbo gourd. Parsley shallot courgette
    tatsoi pea sprouts fava bean collard greens dandelion okra wakame tomato.
    Dandelion cucumber earthnut pea peanut soko zucchini.
  </p>
</article>
```

```css live-sample___first-line
article p::first-line {
  font-size: 120%;
  font-weight: bold;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("first-line")}}

It acts as if a `<span>` was magically wrapped around that first formatted line, and updated each time the line length changed.

You can see that this selects the first line of both paragraphs.

### Playing with pseudo-elements

Edit the CSS of the previous example using the MDN playground:

1. Add a rule that gives the portion of the text selected with the mouse cursor a `red` `background-color` (you'll need the {{cssxref("::selection")}} pseudo-element for this). Select some text to test it out.
2. Add a rule that gives the first letter of each `<p>` inside the `<article>`:

- A `yellow` `background-color`.
- A `1px solid black` `border`.
- A `font-size` of `2rem`.

You can find information on all the other available pseudo-elements on the MDN [Pseudo-elements](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/Pseudo-elements) reference page.

## Combining pseudo-classes and pseudo-elements

If you wanted to make the first line of the first paragraph bold you could chain the `:first-child` and `::first-line` selectors together.

Try editing the previous example so it uses the following CSS. We are saying that we want to select the first line, of the first `<p>` element, which is inside an `<article>` element.

```css
article p:first-child::first-line {
  font-size: 120%;
  font-weight: bold;
}
```

## Generating content with ::before and ::after

There are a couple of special pseudo-elements, which are used along with the [`content`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/content) property to insert content into your document using CSS. This technique is called **generated content**.

You could use it to insert a string of text, such as in the example below. We've also given the generated content a `yellow` background color so it can be easily distinguished from the paragraph content.

```html live-sample___before
<p class="box">Content in the box in my HTML page.</p>
```

```css live-sample___before
.box::before {
  content: "This should show before the other content. ";
  background-color: yellow;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("before")}}

### Playing with generated content

Try editing the previous example as follows:

- Change the text value of the {{cssxref("content")}} property and see it change in the output.
- Change the `::before` pseudo-element to `::after` and see the text inserted at the end of the element instead of the beginning.

### Generated content icons

The above example is valid CSS. However, inserting strings of text from CSS isn't really something we do very often, as that text is inaccessible to some screen readers and might be hard for someone to find and edit in the future. A more valid use of these pseudo-elements is to insert an icon, for example the little arrow added in the example below, which is a visual indicator that we wouldn't want read out by a screen reader:

```html live-sample___after-icon
<p class="box">Content in the box in my HTML page.</p>
```

```css live-sample___after-icon
.box::after {
  content: " ➥";
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("after-icon")}}

### Generated shapes

Generated content is also frequently used to insert an empty string, which can then be styled just like any element on the page.

In this next example, we have added an empty string using the `::before` pseudo-element. We have set this to `display: block` in order that we can style it with a width and height, creating a square shape. We then use CSS to style it just like any element.

```html live-sample___before-styled
<p class="box">Content in the box in my HTML page.</p>
```

```css live-sample___before-styled
.box::before {
  content: "";
  display: block;
  width: 100px;
  height: 100px;
  background-color: rebeccapurple;
  border: 1px solid black;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("before-styled", "", "160")}}

Try playing around with the above CSS to change how the generated shape looks and behaves.

You will regularly see generated content being used for various other tasks. A great example is the site [CSS Arrow Please](https://cssarrowplease.com/), which helps you to generate an arrow with CSS. Look at the CSS as you create your arrow and you will see the {{cssxref("::before")}} and {{cssxref("::after")}} pseudo-elements in use. Whenever you see these selectors, look at the {{cssxref("content")}} property to see what is being added to the HTML element.

## Summary

In this article we've introduced CSS pseudo-classes and pseudo-elements, which are special types of selectors.

Pseudo-classes enable you to target an element when it's in a particular state, as if you had added a class for that state to the DOM. Pseudo-elements act as if you had added a whole new element to the DOM, and enable you to style that. The `::before` and `::after` pseudo-elements enable you to insert content into the document using CSS.

In the next article, we'll learn about combinators.

## See also

- [Pseudo-classes reference](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/Pseudo-classes)
- [Pseudo-elements reference](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/Pseudo-elements)

{{PreviousMenuNext("Learn_web_development/Core/Styling_basics/Attribute_selectors", "Learn_web_development/Core/Styling_basics/Combinators", "Learn_web_development/Core/Styling_basics")}}
