---
title: PublicKeyCredential
slug: Web/API/PublicKeyCredential
page-type: web-api-interface
browser-compat: api.PublicKeyCredential
---

{{APIRef("Web Authentication API")}}{{securecontext_header}}

The **`PublicKeyCredential`** interface provides information about a public key / private key pair, which is a credential for logging in to a service using an un-phishable and data-breach resistant asymmetric key pair instead of a password. It inherits from {{domxref("Credential")}}, and is part of the [Web Authentication API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API) extension to the [Credential Management API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Credential_Management_API).

{{InheritanceDiagram}}

> **Note:** This API is restricted to top-level contexts. Use from within an {{HTMLElement("iframe")}} element will not have any effect.

## Instance properties

- {{domxref("PublicKeyCredential.authenticatorAttachment")}} {{ReadOnlyInline()}} {{securecontext_inline}}

  - : A string that indicates the mechanism by which the WebAuthn implementation is attached to the authenticator at the time the associated {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.create()","navigator.credentials.create()")}} or {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.get()","navigator.credentials.get()")}} call completes.

- {{domxref("PublicKeyCredential.id")}} {{ReadOnlyInline()}} {{securecontext_inline}}

  - : Inherited from {{domxref("Credential")}} and overridden to be the [base64url encoding](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Base64) of {{domxref("PublicKeyCredential.rawId")}}.

- {{domxref("PublicKeyCredential.rawId")}} {{ReadOnlyInline()}} {{securecontext_inline}}

  - : An {{jsxref("ArrayBuffer")}} that holds the globally unique identifier for this `PublicKeyCredential`. This identifier can be used to look up credentials for future calls to {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.get()","navigator.credentials.get()")}}.

- {{domxref("PublicKeyCredential.response")}} {{ReadOnlyInline()}} {{securecontext_inline}}

  - : An instance of an {{domxref("AuthenticatorResponse")}} object. It is either of type {{domxref("AuthenticatorAttestationResponse")}} if the `PublicKeyCredential` was the results of a {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.create()","navigator.credentials.create()")}} call, or of type {{domxref("AuthenticatorAssertionResponse")}} if the `PublicKeyCredential` was the result of a {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.get()","navigator.credentials.get()")}} call.

- `PublicKeyCredential.type` {{ReadOnlyInline()}} {{securecontext_inline}}
  - : Inherited from {{domxref("Credential")}}. Always set to `public-key` for `PublicKeyCredential` instances.

## Static methods

- {{domxref("PublicKeyCredential.isConditionalMediationAvailable()")}} {{securecontext_inline}}

  - : Returns a {{jsxref("Promise")}} which resolves to `true` if conditional mediation is available.

- {{domxref("PublicKeyCredential.isUserVerifyingPlatformAuthenticatorAvailable()")}} {{securecontext_inline}}
  - : Returns a {{jsxref("Promise")}} which resolves to `true` if an authenticator bound to the platform is capable of _verifying_ the user.

## Instance methods

- {{domxref("PublicKeyCredential.getClientExtensionResults()")}} {{securecontext_inline}}
  - : If any extensions were requested, this method will return the results of processing those extensions.

## Examples

### Creating a new instance of PublicKeyCredential

Here, we use {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.create()","navigator.credentials.create()")}} to generate a new credential.

```js
const publicKey = {
  challenge: new Uint8Array([
    21, 31, 105 /* 29 more random bytes generated by the server */,
  ]),
  rp: {
    name: "Example CORP",
    id: "login.example.com",
  },
  user: {
    id: new Uint8Array(16),
    name: "canand@example.com",
    displayName: "Carina Anand",
  },
  pubKeyCredParams: [
    {
      type: "public-key",
      alg: -7,
    },
  ],
};

navigator.credentials
  .create({ publicKey })
  .then((newCredentialInfo) => {
    const response = newCredentialInfo.response;
    const clientExtensionsResults =
      newCredentialInfo.getClientExtensionResults();
  })
  .catch((err) => {
    console.error(err);
  });
```

### Getting an existing instance of PublicKeyCredential

Here, we fetch an existing credential from an authenticator, using {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.get()","navigator.credentials.get()")}}.

```js
const options = {
  challenge: new Uint8Array([
    /* bytes sent from the server */
  ]),
};

navigator.credentials
  .get({ publicKey: options })
  .then((credentialInfoAssertion) => {
    // send assertion response back to the server
    // to proceed with the control of the credential
  })
  .catch((err) => {
    console.error(err);
  });
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- The parent interface {{domxref("Credential")}}
