---
title: "Summarizer: create() static method"
short-title: create()
slug: Web/API/Summarizer/create_static
page-type: web-api-static-method
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.Summarizer.create_static
---

{{APIRef("Summarizer API")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}{{securecontext_header}}

The **`create()`** static method of the {{domxref("Summarizer")}} interface creates a new `Summarizer` instance from which to generate summaries.

> [!NOTE]
> The `create()` method requires [transient activation](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Transient_activation), that is, it must be invoked in response to a user action such as a mouse click or button press.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
Summarizer.create()
Summarizer.create(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An object specifying configuration options for the `Summarizer`. Possible values include:
    - `expectedInputLanguages`
      - : An array of strings specifying the expected languages of the input text, which should be valid [BCP 47 language tags](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IETF_language_tag#List_of_common_primary_language_subtags) (as specified in [RFC 5646](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5646)). Defaults to `["en"]`.
    - `expectedContextLanguages`
      - : An array of strings specifying the expected languages of any provided context strings (either the [`sharedContext`](#sharedcontext) passed to the `Summarizer`, or a `context` specified during a {{domxref("Summarizer.summarize", "summarize()")}} or {{domxref("Summarizer.summarizeStreaming", "summarizeStreaming()")}} call), which should be valid BCP 47 language tags. Defaults to `["en"]`.
    - `format`
      - : An enumerated value specifying the text {{domxref("Summarizer.format", "format")}} you want summaries returned in. Defaults to `markdown`.
    - `length`
      - : An enumerated value specifying the relative {{domxref("Summarizer.length", "length")}} for the generated summaries. Defaults to `short`.
    - `monitor`
      - : A callback function with a {{domxref("CreateMonitor")}} argument that enables monitoring download progress of the AI model.
    - `outputLanguage`
      - : A string specifying the expected language of summaries generated by the `Summarizer`, which should be a valid BCP 47 language tag. Defaults to `en`.
    - `sharedContext`
      - : A {{domxref("Summarizer.sharedContext", "sharedContext")}} string describing the context the pieces of text to summarize are being used in, which helps the `Summarizer` generate more suitable summaries.
    - `signal`
      - : An {{domxref("AbortSignal")}} object instance, which allows the `create()` operation to be aborted via the associated {{domxref("AbortController")}}.
    - `type`
      - : An enumerated value specifying the {{domxref("Summarizer.type", "type")}} of summary you want this `Summarizer` to generate. Defaults to `key-points`.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that fulfills with a `Summarizer` object instance.

### Exceptions

- `NotAllowedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if usage of the Summarizer API is blocked by a {{httpheader('Permissions-Policy/summarizer','summarizer')}} {{httpheader("Permissions-Policy")}}.
- `NotSupportedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if any of the language tags specified in `expectedContextLanguages`, `expectedInputLanguages`, or `outputLanguage` are invalid, or not supported.
- `OperationError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : General-purpose exception thrown if `Summarizer` creation failed for any other reason.

## Examples

### Basic `Summarizer` creation

```js
const summarizer = await Summarizer.create({
  sharedContext:
    "A general summary to help a user decide if the text is worth reading",
  type: "tldr",
  length: "short",
  format: "markdown",
  expectedInputLanguages: ["en-US"],
  outputLanguage: "en-US",
});
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Using the Summarizer API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Summarizer_API/Using)
- [Web AI demos](https://chrome.dev/web-ai-demos/) on chrome.dev
