---
title: Sidebars
slug: MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Sidebars
page-type: mdn-writing-guide
---

{{MDNSidebar}}

All the pages MDN community members may edit include a sidebar. These sidebars are created using macros.
This article describes the different MDN sidebar macros, demonstrating how to include sidebars on MDN pages.

In this guide, you will learn how to create a sidebar of links by just including a macro and how to create sidebars with additional content.

## Creating sidebars

Every page has a sidebar. These sidebars appear because a sidebar macro has been included on the pages that create a potentially hierarchical list of links to other pages on this site.

When a sidebar macro is included, the server creates a section of content containing an unordered list of links. The links created, where they are displayed, and how they are displayed depend on the macro used and the parameters included in the markdown macro call. Some sidebars include links based on a directory's structure or page type. Others include a list of predefined pages that are hard-coded in Yari.

### including single-macro sidebars

To include only the content generated by a sidebar macro, the macro is added immediately after the frontmatter and before the content on every page. Frontmatter is where we specify the metadata and options for each page. The frontmatter on MDN includes the page title, slug, and page type, along with other information based on the page type, such as specification URL, browser compatibility object, etc.

For example, the first lines of this document are written as:

```md
---
title: Sidebars
slug: MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Sidebars
page-type: mdn-writing-guide
---

\{{MDNSidebar}}
```

The frontmatter is the content between the dashes. The sidebar macro is included immediately after the frontmatter. The `\{{MDNSidebar}}` is a sidebar macro that adds the MDN sidebar to the page. When the sidebar is a single macro call, the macro is placed immediately after the frontmatter.

Here are a few other sidebar macros, with what they do:

- `\{{CSSRef}}`

  - : Present on every CSS page, it generates a CSS sidebar that includes links for modules, properties, selectors, combinators, pseudo-classes, pseudo-elements, at-rules, functions, and types, with all the link lists collapsed except for the link list for the current page type.

- `\{{DefaultAPISidebar("<API_Title>")}}`

  - : The API sidebar displayed for overview pages; the single parameter is the name of the API group in GroupData.

- `\{{GlossarySidebar}}`

  - : Present on every glossary page, it generates the glossary sidebar that includes the list of top-level glossary terms (not the disambiguated terms) preceded by a section filter.

- `\{{LearnSidebar}}`

  - : Present on every page within the Learn section except for common questions and how-to pages (which use the `QuickLinksWithSubpages` macro), it generates a sidebar based on the [hard-coded links](https://github.com/mdn/yari/blob/main/kumascript/macros/LearnSidebar.ejs) present in the Yari macro file. This macro is not based on file structure.

- `\{{HTMLSidebar}}`

  - : Generates the sidebar for HTML documentation, including tutorials, references, and guides. The macro includes calls to the `\{{ ListSubpagesForSidebar}}` macro for the element and attribute reference sections, while the tutorial and guide [links are hard-coded](https://github.com/mdn/yari/blob/main/kumascript/macros/HTMLSidebar.ejs).

- `\{{HTTPSidebar}}`

  - : Generates the sidebar for [HTTP documentation](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP), including guides and reference docs.

- `\{{PWASidebar}}`

  - : Generates the sidebar for progressive web app (PWA) documentation. The macro lists all the pages (it is not based on file structure).

The appropriate macro to use depends on the [page type](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Page_types). The [template](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Page_types#page_templates) for each page type includes the appropriate macro for that page type.

### Sidebars: adding additional content

When adding a new page to MDN, use the sidebar macro included in the should use one of the sidebar macros Each of the sidebar macros listed above creates a predefined sidebar structure.
If you need to append links before or after the sidebar structure generated by the macro, you can do so. You can also fully craft a sidebar without including a sidebar macro, optionally including other macros.

To add additional content to a sidebar, or create a sidebar without a sidebar macro, follow these steps:

1. Remove any sidebar sidebar macro appearing immediately after the frontmatter and before the content, as each document can only have one sidebar.
2. At the end of the markdown file, add an HTML {{htmlelement("section")}} element and add `id="Quick_links"`.
3. Nest both the macro and any additional links within this `<section>` or otherwise add an unordered list of links written in markdown between the opening and closing `<section>` tags.

For example, adding the following at the end of a markdown file (and removing any sidebar macro from below the frontmatter), will create a sidebar containing the links to all the ARIA role pages, preceded by a link to the ARIA roles overview page:

```md
<section id="Quick_links">

1. [**WAI-ARIA roles**](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles)

   \{{ListSubpagesForSidebar("/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles", "true")}}

</section>
```

If listed as the last content in the page, Yari, the engine that renders MDN, recognizes the `Quick_links` ID in the opening tag and converts the content of the identified `<section>` into a sidebar.

The `\{{ListSubpagesForSidebar(<parameters>)}}` macro inserts the tree of subpages for the page whose slug is specified as the first parameter. The above creates a sidebar containing a link to the ARIA Roles landing page followed by an unordered list containing a link to each `role`.

You can create a sidebar without including a list-of-links creating macro:

```md
<section id="Quick_links">

- [WAI-ARIA `button` role](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/Button_role)
- \{{HTMLElement("button")}}
- \{{HTMLElement("input/button", "button")}} \{{HTMLElement("input")}}

</section>
```

> **Note:** This `<section>` must be appended to the end of the document, instead of between the frontmatter and the page content. Only one sidebar is created per page, so any macro listed after the frontmatter must be removed.

The [macro source code](https://github.com/mdn/yari/tree/main/kumascript/macros) is on Github. Each macro includes the documentation for itself, including parameters, if any.

## See also

- [Using macros](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Macros)
- [Content link macros](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Macros/Links)
- [Page section macros](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Macros/Commonly_used_macros)
- [Banners and notices macros](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Banners_and_notices)
- [All macro](https://github.com/mdn/yari/tree/main/kumascript/macros) on Github

still working on this. this was cut from the previous version

### Sidebars: adding additional content

Each of the Quicklink macros listed above creates a predefined sidebar structure.
If you need to append links before or after the sidebar structure generated by the macro, you can do so by:

1. Remove any sidebar Quicklink macro appearing immediately after the frontmatter and before the content, as each document can only have one sidebar.
2. At the end of the markdown file, add an HTML {{htmlelement("section")}} element and add `id="Quick_links"` (Hence the name "Quicklinks") to the opening tag.
3. Nest both the macro and any additional links within this `<section>`.

For example, adding the following at the end of a markdown file (and removing any sidebar macro from below the frontmatter), will create a sidebar containing the links to all the ARIA role pages, preceded by a link to the ARIA roles overview page:

```md
<section id="Quick_links">

1. [**WAI-ARIA roles**](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles)

   \{{ListSubpagesForSidebar("/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles", "true")}}

</section>
```

> **Note:** This `<section>` must be appended to the end of the page, instead of between the frontmatter and the page content.

You can also fully craft a sidebar with more than one Quicklinks macro, without including a Quicklinks macro, with cross reference macros, or any combination of macros and markdown. The steps to creating a sidebar without a Quicklinks macro are similar to the steps for the ARIA example above:

1. Remove any sidebar Quicklink macro appearing immediately after the frontmatter and before the content.
2. At the end of the markdown file, add the following HTML markup as the last content of the markdown file: `<section id="Quick_links"></section>`.
3. Add an unordered list of links written in markdown between the opening and closing `<section>` tags.

```md
<section id="Quick_links">

- [WAI-ARIA `button` role](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/Button_role)
- \{{HTMLElement("button")}}
- \{{HTMLElement("input/button", "button")}} \{{HTMLElement("input")}}

</section>
```

> **Note:** To include content in your sidebar along with a quicklink macro, the extra content and the quicklinks macro must be placed at the end of the document. Only one sidebar is created per page, so any macro listed after the frontmatter must be removed.

## Main content area links
