---
title: CSSStyleProperties
slug: Web/API/CSSStyleProperties
page-type: web-api-interface
browser-compat: api.CSSStyleProperties
---

{{APIRef("CSSOM")}}

The **`CSSStyleProperties`** interface of the [CSS Object Model (CSSOM)](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSS_Object_Model) represents inline or computed styles available on an element, or the styles associated with a CSS style rule.

{{InheritanceDiagram}}

## Instance properties

_This interface also inherits properties of its parent, {{domxref("CSSStyleDeclaration")}}._

- Named properties
  - : Dash-named and camel-case-named properties for all CSS properties supported by the browser.
- {{DOMxRef("CSSStyleProperties.cssFloat", "CSSStyleProperties.cssFloat")}}
  - : Special alias for the {{CSSxRef("float")}} CSS property.

## Instance methods

_This interface inherits the methods of its parent, {{domxref("CSSStyleDeclaration")}}._

## Description

An object of this type has dash-named properties for **all** [CSS properties](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Properties) supported by the browser, including both [shorthand](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Shorthand_properties) and longhand properties, and those with `-moz` and `-webkit` prefixes.
These can accessed using methods inherited from the {{DOMxRef("CSSStyleProperties")}} base class, such as {{DOMxRef("CSSStyleDeclaration/getPropertyPriority", "getPropertyValue()")}} and {{DOMxRef("CSSStyleDeclaration/getPropertyPriority", "setPropertyValue()")}}.

In addition, each dash-cased property has a corresponding {{glossary("camel case")}}-named property, where the name is generated by removing the dashes and capitalizing each word after the first one.
This allows you to, for example, access the `margin-top` CSS property using the syntax `style.marginTop` (where `style` is a `CSSStyleProperties`), instead of the more cumbersome `style.getPropertyValue("margin-top")` or `style["margin-top"]`.
The CSS property `float`, being a reserved JavaScript keyword, is represented by the `cssFloat` property.

Shorthand CSS properties of the element are expanded to their corresponding long-form properties.
For example, an element with style `"border-top: 1px solid black"` would be represented in the returned object by properties with the names {{cssxref("border-top")}} and `borderTop`, and the corresponding longhand properties {{cssxref("border-top-color")}} and `borderTopColor`, {{cssxref("border-top-style")}} and `borderTopStyle`, and {{cssxref("border-top-width")}} and `borderTopWidth`.

Properties and attributes with no defined value default to the empty string (`""`).
For an object representing an inline style declaration (not computed styles) this will be any style that is not defined in the declaration block.

`CSSStyleProperties` object instances are exposed using the following APIs:

- {{DOMxRef("HTMLElement.style")}}, {{domxref("SVGElement.style")}}, and {{domxref("MathMLElement.style")}}: Used to get and set the _inline style_ of a single element (e.g., `<div style="…">`).
- {{DOMxRef("Window.getComputedStyle()")}}: Used to get the (read only) computed style of an element, which includes the effects of both inline and external styles.
- {{DOMxRef("CSSStyleRule.style")}}: Used to get and set the styles of a stye rule ({{DOMxRef("CSSStyleRule")}}).

## Examples

### Basic usage

#### HTML

The HTML defines a {{htmlelement("div")}} with a number of styles set, nested within another that sets the `font-weight`.
There are also buttons to get the inline styles and computed styles for the element (and hidden code for a reset button and logging).

```html
<div style="font-weight: bold;">
  <div style="border-top: 1px solid blue; color: red;" id="elt">
    An example div
  </div>
</div>
<button id="inline_style" type="button">Inline Style</button>
<button id="computed_style" type="button">Computed Style</button>
```

```html hidden
<pre id="log"></pre>
```

```css hidden
#log {
  height: 160px;
  overflow: scroll;
  padding: 0.5rem;
  border: 1px solid black;
}
```

#### JavaScript

```js hidden
const logElement = document.querySelector("#log");
function log(text) {
  logElement.innerText = `${logElement.innerText}${text}\n`;
  logElement.scrollTop = logElement.scrollHeight;
}
```

The code below shows how you can get a particular property of the `CSSStyleProperties` using the dot notation: in this case the `borderTop` shorthand property.

```js
const element = document.querySelector("#elt");
const elementStyle = element.style;
const borderTop = elementStyle.borderTop;
log(`"borderTop" = '${borderTop}'`);
```

We could also use the {{DOMxRef("CSSStyleDeclaration/getPropertyPriority", "getPropertyValue()")}} method or bracket notation, but the dot notation is the simplest approach.
Below we show this for each of the longhand properties that correspond to `border-top`:

```js
// Get the
log(
  `"border-top-width" = '${elementStyle.getPropertyValue("border-top-width")}'`,
);
log(`"border-top-color" = '${elementStyle["border-top-color"]}'`);
log(`"borderTopStyle" = '${elementStyle.borderTopStyle}'`);
```

Finally we show how you can set the inline style property of an element by setting `borderTopColor` to green.
We demonstrate the effect on the shorthand property by logging the `borderTop` value.

```js
log("\nChange color to green and log borderTop");
elementStyle.borderTopColor = "green";
log(`"borderTop" = '${elementStyle.borderTop}'`);
```

#### Results

The results are shown below.
Note how changing the longhande property is reflected in the corresponding shorthand property.

{{EmbedLiveSample("Basic usage", "100", "250")}}

### Enumerate dash-named style properties

This example demonstrates how to enumerate the dash-named property values of an element, for both the inline and computed style.

#### HTML

The HTML defines a {{htmlelement("div")}} with a number of styles set, nested within another that sets the `font-weight`.
There are also buttons to get the inline styles and computed styles for the element (and hidden code for a reset button and logging).

```html
<div style="font-weight: bold;">
  <div style="border-top: 1px solid blue; color: red;" id="elt">
    An example div
  </div>
</div>
<button id="inline_style" type="button">Inline Style</button>
<button id="computed_style" type="button">Computed Style</button>
```

```html hidden
<button id="reset" type="button">Reset</button>
<pre id="log"></pre>
```

```css hidden
#log {
  height: 300px;
  overflow: scroll;
  padding: 0.5rem;
  border: 1px solid black;
}
```

```js hidden
const logElement = document.querySelector("#log");
function log(text) {
  logElement.innerText = `${logElement.innerText}${text}\n`;
  logElement.scrollTop = logElement.scrollHeight;
}

function clearLog(text) {
  logElement.innerText = "";
}

const reload = document.querySelector("#reset");

reload.addEventListener("click", () => {
  clearLog();
});
```

#### JavaScript

The code first defines the function we're going to use to enumerate the properties of our element `elt`.
This uses {{domxref("CSSStyleDeclaration.getPropertyValue()")}} to get the value of each dash-named property owned by the object that has a numeric index.

```js
function getPopulatedProperties(elementStyles) {
  for (const prop in elementStyles) {
    if (
      // Check the property belongs to the CSSStyleProperties instance
      // Check property has a numeric index (indicates inline/dash-named style)
      Object.hasOwn(elementStyles, prop) &&
      !Number.isNaN(Number.parseInt(prop, 10))
    ) {
      log(
        `${elementStyles[prop]} = '${elementStyles.getPropertyValue(elementStyles[prop])}'`,
      );
    }
  }
}
```

The following code checks and logs whether `CSSStyleProperties` is defined.
If it exists then we create button event handlers to get the inline or computed styles for the element and log their names and values.

```js
if (typeof window.CSSStyleProperties === "undefined") {
  log("CSSStyleProperties is not supported on this browser.");
} else {
  const element = document.querySelector("#elt");

  const inlineStyle = document.querySelector("#inline_style");
  inlineStyle.addEventListener("click", () => {
    clearLog();
    const elementStyle = element.style;
    getPopulatedProperties(elementStyle);
  });

  const computedStyle = document.querySelector("#computed_style");
  computedStyle.addEventListener("click", () => {
    clearLog();
    const compStyles = window.getComputedStyle(element);
    getPopulatedProperties(compStyles);
  });
}
```

#### Results

Press the buttons to show the dash-named property names and values for the element's inline and computed styles.
Note that the inline styles only include the styles defined on the actual element: all the other properties have the value `""` and are not displayed.
The computed styles also include `font-weight`, which is defined on the parent, and many other computed styles.

{{EmbedLiveSample("Enumerate dash-named style properties", "100", "400")}}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}
